Review:

Thanks to the authors for this contribution. The idea presented is relatively new to the dInSAR
technique for dSWE and it presents interesting discussion on multilooking window selection
for processing. However, I have found issues that prevent me from recommending its
publication without a major revision. The paper needs to broaden theoretical discussion,
including selected references and provide a more thoughtful discussion on their ﬁndings.



General Comments:

There are important papers that should be consulted as they discuss coherence for non-
stationary processes. Touzi et al., 1999 models di erently the non-stationarity. Yueh et al.,
2026 directly addresses the topic presented here. The latter is particularly important here.
Also consider Rott et al., 2003, although the formulation is for sub-pixel scale.

An important addition to the paper would be to quantify both the absolute value and the
argument of M with respect to standard deviation or relevant metrics within the window. Now,
the reader cannot quantify the any impact of the variability. It is necessary to better quantify
the magnitude of the e ect. Consider the following:

   1. Choose a window size and generate phase samples (“per-cell deviation from mean”)
      drawn from a distribution. For example, Gaussian 𝑁(0, 𝜎) or consider other distribution
      that captures the spatial distribution within the window.
   2. Calculate complex M, repeat enough times till convergence.
   3. Repeat for di erent values of sigma. This would provide an idea of the e ect of M for
      di erent window variabilities, instead of the arbitrary examples presented in Figure 1.


This can also be calculated analytically but of course it’s more tedious. Consider this both in
absolute dSWE and radians. Consider di erent distributions. For example, in case the
underlying distribution is Gaussian of 𝛿, or a symmetric distribution in general, I would expect
that 𝐸{arg(𝑀)} = 0. This is your case in Figure 1 (middle). Then, the estimated phase from the
window will not be skewed. The reader needs to understand already in section 2 what causes
the skewing.

How does the typical multilooking window look like in terms of Δ𝑆𝑊𝐸? Which distribution
approximate it better? This could be linked to your dataset. Based on your results (Figure 5),
the distribution of Δ𝑆𝑊𝐸 may not be symmetrical. While this is partially addressed in Section
4.2, I think the aggregation over the whole dataset does not allow understanding of the
individual multilook variability.
Another important consideration are variations of local incidence angle in the multilooking
window. Although the sensitivity is smaller than Δ𝑆𝑊𝐸, changes in LIA within the multilooking
window will produce the same e ect even for constant Δ𝑆𝑊𝐸. In particular to your dataset,
the northeast area seems to have lower values of M, but also presents more topographical
variations.

Can you report the spatial baseline between NISAR acquisitions? The orbital tube for NISAR is
small, but I wonder if small spatial baseline between passes can impact the coherence in
some areas of your images.

A distinction between posting, resolution and multilook is needed. The multilooked domain,
either 5x6 or 13x16, does not correspond to 20 or 81 ground meters, as multilooking is
calculated in radar coordinates. Range resolution also depends with incidence angle.
Comparing NISAR coherence and Lidar-derived M needs to be done with care (e.g., Section
4.3).

The terminology “within-window”, “sub-window”, and “footprint” is used somewhat
interchangeably throughout the manuscript.



Speciﬁc Comments:

The abstract and introduction does not stress enough the main problem. Phase is highly
sensitive to Δ𝑆𝑊𝐸 and Δ𝑆𝑊𝐸is highly spatially variable. Also high decorrelation makes large
multilooking an attractive option to deal with noise at a cost of spatial resolution.

Section 2:

Somewhere along the ﬁrst paragraph it should be commented that this “averaging” is
performed spatially.

Equation 2 should be introduced more clearly.

Figure 1 requires more explanation, describe how many pixels are you using, the central
frequency you are using (as later described this is critical). Also consider discussing if the
presented dynamic range is reasonable for SAR revisit times. Do you observe ±8cm=80mm
Δ𝑆𝑊𝐸 often?

I think you need to di erentiate between real noise free Δ𝑆𝑊𝐸 or Δ𝜙 and observed values. For
example, in Line 86 it is unclear if 𝛿 refers to stochastic noise or Δ𝑆𝑊𝐸 deviations from the
mean. If the process is stationary, then 𝛿 = 0 for every pixel. The section already discusses in
terms of estimated phase variance when in my understanding, you are discussing the e ect of
the underlying distribution of Δ𝑆𝑊𝐸.

Section 3.4:
When using the LIA=40 for the whole image, the topography is ignored, which varies sub-
window variability.

Section 3.6:

The claim on the Circular Gaussian as the limitation is unclear.

Equitation 8 is based on stationary samples. Since the central discussion of the paper is the
non-stationarity I think commenting the validity of this equation is in order.

Section 4.5:

The results, in particular related to C-band are quite pessimistic. How do these compare to
literature, for example Oveisgharan et al., 2024, Oveisgharan et al., 2026, Bovenga et al., 2025
among others? This requires reconciliation with previous papers.

Section 5.2:

I don’t agree with this. For tower imagery I would not expect high spatial variability within the
multilook window. The whole window may be smaller than a typical satellite resolution cell.

Snow depth/SWE for sea ice snow, is typically smaller than land. This is hinted on line 433.
This is why I believe you need to quantify either analytically or numerically the e ect of phase
variance in the complex coherence.



Speciﬁc Comments:

Line 22: how “approximately weekly observations” are meet? Which constellation? S1?
Where?

Line 48 to 50: These two sentences discusses di erent issues, variability in the pixel and
within the estimation window, and are provided without reference.

Line 50: Not completely sure if the original quote refers to your problem or phase unwrapping
errors, as di erences larger than 2pi cannot be recovered with some unwrapping tools.

Line 74: PDF require deﬁnition?

Line 86: I would suppose that all terms in this section are already noise-free, then how is 𝛿
decorrelation noise alone?

Line 102: This is repeated.

Line 103: not necessarily true for all frequencies.

Line 164: Int.phase is deﬁned between (-pi, pi].

Line 328 and 333: Again the e ect of the LIA could be a ecting the non-stationarity.
Line 342: I don’t agree with this, see my points regarding Section 2.

Line 406: I think those paper start my calculating coherence spatially, so I don’t think saying
they use temporal rather than spatial averaging is right, can you check?

Line 412: drop the formula of the phase closure as neither it or z are deﬁned or used
elsewhere.

Figure 7 refers to sub-pixel on the title.
